---
layout: page
title: 'Prefrontal hypo-connectivity in the 16p11.2 microdeletion autism model: Abstract'
---

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been often associated to the presence of
reduced or aberrant functional brain connectivity as measured with resting
state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (rsfMRI). However, great
heterogeneity exists in the distribution and expression of these alterations,
and little is known on the pathophysiological and genetic determinants
underlying these deficits. Human chromosome 16p11.2 microdeletion, a trait
associated to mild intellectual disability, is the most common gene copy
number variation in autism, accounting for approximately 0.5-1% of all ASD
cases. By using rsfMRI in a mouse model of human chromosome 16p11.2
microdeletion, we show that this genetic alteration results in circuit
specific functional connectivity reductions. Specifically, we show that
16p11.2+/- mice exhibit reduced rsfMRI connectivity between retrosplenial and
dorsal prefrontal areas of the mouse “default mode network”. Similarly reduced
connectivity was observed between insular and prefrontal portions of the mouse
“salience network”. Evidence of reduced thalamo-prelimbic connectivity was
also observed. No genotype-dependent inter-hemispheric, fronto-hippocampal,
and local connectivity differences were recorded. Collectively, our findings
recapitulate hallmark neuroimaging findings in ASD and identify plausible
macroscale circuital alterations underlying some of the cognitive deficits
produced by 16p11.2 microdeletion.
